# Growth Mindset Reflections
  *Samuel Allan
  07/11/2023
  Ops 401 course prework*
---
## Summary
<p>These resources centered around the concept of personal development. In order to grow professionally on a path that we align with and that encourages positive mental health, we need to consider how we can carve ourselves into better people. They discussed subjects such as intentional practice, personality traits of people who are truly successful, and how we can mitigate bias at least amongst ourselves, if not within society at large. Below, I will discuss each resource individually.</p>
### Deliberate Practice
<p> This article discusses the difference between implicit and intentional practice: practice you naturally do at work, that isn't objectively a challenge to you, and practice that expands your skills, makes you learn new things, and leaves you feeling like your brain got a work out. They brought up an interesting example regarding musicians that I believe conveys this well: you may see an amateur pianist practicing by drilling entire songs, start to finish, ones they can play beautifully and that may be well familiar to them. On the other hand, the pros generally practice the parts they struggle with the most, to hone their skills in those weak areas so they can move on to the next level. Just like in an RPG, you can stay in the low level area grinding on weak enemies, and you can absolutely reach a high level doing that if you're willing to invest an absurd amount of time doing repetitive tasks. On the other hand, if you play the game as intended, you naturally pick up skills, techniques, items and ever increasing amounts of xp as you go along, until you're playing the game exactly how you want to and loving every minute of it. These examples capture the essence of this issue well: it is vital to practice the skills you are developing in ways that cause you to pick up new skills along the way while refining the ones you already have.</p>
### Carol Dweck - The Power Of Believing That You Can Improve
<p> This video discussed how even children in some of the most disadvantaged communities can experience a greater quality of learning if we slightly change the way we go about teaching about learning. Generally, there are implicit societal biases about how learning occurs. They were there when I was growing up, and I can't imagine they'd be gone now. These biases are taught through social interaction with peers, instructors and parents alike. These include things like the prominent belief that if you were good at the hard subjects (math, AP english, computer programming, etc.), you were pretty much guarunteed an easy pass: you were one of the smart ones. This kind of belief is damaging in a few ways to all parties: Kids who are not good at the "smart" subjects are not as smart according to this principle. If you as a child believe that you are less intelligent than those around you, you may well subconsciously set that standard for yourself and avoid taking on challenging tasks that you could likely learn to be excellent at due to that predefined social belief. Secondly, if you are on the receiving end of praise for this, congratulations: the pressure has been ramped up. Now, if you do falter in a subject, you have to contend with the great "Why?". This prevents you from setting realistic expectations for yourself, and can lead to the same kind of avoidance of uncomfortable or challenging tasks due to a fear of failure, just like the kid on the other side of the fence.
In this video, she discussed studies that were done that showed that when children in disadvantaged communities were taught about the actual neurological processes that go into learning, how their brain is branching out and mapping new connections continuously, it helps significantly to reduce that implicit bias and allow the children to feel more comfortable taking on these challenging tasks. In the studies, the children who were taught about the neuroscience behind learning managed to excell past the control group, which was a very highly regarded school with students generally coming from a more advantaged background. This highlights the fact that by teaching children the nature of our brains and how they impact our reality early, we can help to mitigate some of the societal problems that are holding people back from success.
</p>
### Angela Lee Duckworth - Grit: The Power Of Passion And Perseverence
<p>This speaker discusses a similar issue to the previous speaker, but comes at it from another perspective. She suggests basing our educational systems around the psychology and neuroscience behind not only how kids learn, but how they stay motivated and excited to learn. She mentions that one of the biggest predictors of success is grit, stamina and perseverence over immediate ability. When a survey was passed around a college campus to determine how "gritty" individual students were, those who ranked higher on that scale (more grit) were highly likely to graduate over those who ranked lower. This is in part due to the nature of grit itself: when you've been beaten down so many times that you cannot possibly be pushed down any further, you realize that you have nowhere to go but up. Starting from the bottom, you can work on improving your weak areas little by little until before you know it you're taking on challenges you'd never believed possible. If we find a way to ignite that passion for learning and developing new skills in our children, it is highly likely we will see a higher rate of success in fresh graduates/higher graduation rate overall.</p>
### Alain De Botton - A Kinder Gentler Philosophy Of Success
<p>Alain covered some deep topics, and I really would quite like to speak with this man someday. His video centers mainly around societal, external bias: the man with the fancy car vs the man with the dirty clothes, and which one of them is percieved to be more successful than the other. The biggest takeaway I had from this video was one thing I've been working on myself lately, and been benefiting greatly from: try to define succes. Not according to society's labels, but according to your own definition of what it would mean for you to be successful. What do you want to accomplish here? Who do you want to be? Where do you want to go and how do you want to get there? The man with the fancy car may be completely dissatisfied with his life, while the man with dirty clothes might well be exactly on the right path to be where he wants to be, or may already be there. It coulud be the opposite. Either way, all parties benefit from maintaining this mindset of personal success, personal growth, and personal motivation. Working towards and maintaining this level of self awareness will benefit the world at large, spreading itself like a worm and helping to mitigate the effects of social bias on a case by case basis; the more people we have focused on personal success, the more kind, friendly encouraging people we will start to see in the industry, until change is seen across the board.</p>

    Self assessment results are contained within this repository. Resources mentioned linked below
- [Angela Lee Duckworth - Grit: The Power Of Passion And Perseverence](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_grit_the_power_of_passion_and_perseverance/c)
- [Alain De Botton - A Kinder Gentler Philosophy Of Success](https://www.ted.com/talks/alain_de_botton_a_kinder_gentler_philosophy_of_success)
- [Carol Dweck - The Power Of Believing That You Can Improve](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve?language=en)
- [Deliberate Practice](https://web.archive.org/web/20160616225417/http://www.happybearsoftware.com/upgrade-your-technical-skills-with-deliberate-practice)
