# Cloud Security and Identity Management
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- The SOP is the backbone of a good company policy, giving it structure and applying specific definitions and meanings to otherwise airy or subjective terms and values. SOPs provide a consistent set of instructions through which company policy can be maintained. A well written SOP will be easily understandable, using specific terminology to convey exact meanings so that misunderstandings cannot cause errors down the line. It will be formatted in a way that makes it easy to read, using proper font sizes, headings, pages, and bullets where necessary to provide a consistent format that is easily digestible. Specificity is key, as a precise and succinct form of instruction is easy to act on consistently compared to a long winded and rambling set of instructions. In order to properly write a SOP, a clear outline must first be established, so that the format remains consistent across the document. Any closely related/redundant topics should be merged into one: you want this to be as clean and minimalist as possible while delivering the exact instructions you need to convey. An ideal flow chart written for an SOP should have 5-7 steps on average.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- SOPs are used in all jobs regardless of whether they work with tech or manual labor. The employee handbook at any new company is a form of SOP, delivering a clear set of rules and guidelines that, if followed, will allow you to adhere to the company's mission and goals. I have never had to write one for any of these previous jobs, but having reviewed them previously, I imagine the key difference would be more of a focus on data security and preventing unauthorized access to networks and systems, as opposed to the ones I've experienced prior having more to do with the standard processes of a kitchen, such as how to respond in the event of a fire/injury, or even just what tasks must be accomplished in what order throughout the day. An example of a SOP from a past job would be the procedure for locking up the restaurant at the end of the night; while taking the trash out (typically the final task of the day) one employee remains in the store. Upon trash being finished, the procedure is to clock out, shut off the lights, turn on the proximity alarm, and leave the store quickly before the 30 second timer on the alarm finishes.
---
## Things I want to know more about:
- What are some of the most common inclusions in SOPs for cybersecurity positions?
- In what roles would I find myself needing to write SOPs?
- Where is the line drawn between being specific and detailed, encompassing every situation possible, and being too wordy to be read?
