# IT Infrastructure and Cloud Computing
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- This topic covers powershell, how it is going to be useful to us as cybersecurity professionals, and how it is utilized by malicious actors to conduct 57% of modern cyber attacks. It also outlined some of the other most common threats so we can be more aware of them. It explained how powershell is useful to system admins, and typically tied to admin or engineer roles. It is an interpreted language and scripting environment wrapped into one. This means it can share complex data between commands. Powershell is cross platform, and will thus be useful whether we specialize in linux or windows. Bash and python together can accomplish things that Powershell cannot, but in a lot of the overlapping content powershell can operate quicker, as it is optimized for automation. However, like any interpreted language that interacts directly with the memory, it can be utilized by bad actors to directly inject malicious code into a system. This is why it seems to be the tool of choice recently, as most cyber attacks are conducted through virtual machines and powershell. "It will be useful to be familiar with the tools, tactics, and mindset of our enemies in order to understand their approach on the battlefield" - JFK. One source also detailed how useful powershell would be in our career, as it is a skill needed in todays ever changing landscape and is highly sought after by employers, as that same increased speed over using bash/python (though these will be useful too in their own ways, Powershell is much more useful for managing entire systems) will make you more efficient than those who do not have this skill. Overall, powershell will be a crucial tool in my future as a cybersecurity pro.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- Powershell would be akin to the central console of a large fishing vessel. It could be used to quickly automate processes that would consume vast amounts of time, or risk human life and limb. A powershell attack in this case would be akin to somebody onboard directly manipulating those systems to malfunction and putting them into action through that console, causing the whole ship to be destroyed, or could steal user data such as the captain's private logs.
I have never worked on a commercial fishing vessel, but this is the closest comparison I could think to draw to something I have prior experience with.
---
## Things I want to know more about
- How can I practice powershell attacks safely to gain a deeper understanding of how they work and how to protect against them/what their vulnerabilities are.
- What exactly makes powershell better than bash for managing networks, what is bash optimized for? what does bash do better?
- What are the circumstances where you would want to use bash and python in tandem for a task powershell could not accomplish?
