# Linux Scripting and Data Manipulation
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- This topic is relevant to what we are studying in the unit as it teaches us about file sharing systems, how ports 139 and 455 work to communicate between a client and a server, and detailed some threats that can come across ports 139 and 455 and how we can defend against them. This is vital when it comes to having a full understanding of cybersecurity. SMB is one of the most popular network sharing tools, and so understanding how to keep it secure is extremely important. SMB operates on wormable ports, which means it is vulnerable to network worms, which can install software to grant backdoor access and rapidly copy across all devices on a network. Obviously, if this vulnerability is exploited it could compromise the security of the entire network very quickly, so it is important to remember to do things like regularly updating your system, backing up data, and incorporating things like firewalls and VPNS into your network to boost its security. The video covered how we can interact with windows through the command line rather than the GUI, which will be important as windows is the industry standard, and the most commonly used OS in most companies. We have been familiarizing ourselves with linux commands, which is great for working in linux, but if we want to use the windows command line the same way we use the linux terminal we need to commit the proper commands to memory, as windows does not read the same commands as linux. For example, while pwd would show you where you are in the linux terminal, cd would be the corresponding command in windows. In linux, cd is used to change directory, which is also true in windows. Not all the commands are different, but the ones that are the same generally have different uses or capabilities between the two systems. Some other important commands covered were chkdsk, which checks the hard disk for errors. Diskpart, which is used for disk partitioning and storage management. And tasklist and taskkill, which can be used to perform the same functions as the task manager without the GUI. It also covered how we can copy or move files and directories from one place to another via the command line, which will be useful in a system admin role.
### Quick reference notes for later
- SMB is a protocol for sharing things like files, printers, data, and ports across all devices on a network. SMB ran through several iterations experimenting with different ports (it originally operated on port 139 but now operates on port 445) and features, it was originally created in 1983 and had hundreds of commands and subcommands, recent versions have stripped these down into a smaller, more efficient and powerful bank of commands. The most recent version, SMB 3.11, has added several features to improve security, such as advanced encryption and preauthentication integrity. printers and serial ports use port 139, as it is used as an application layer network protocol for allowing devices on a network to communicate with one another. port 455 allows devices on a network to communicate with the internet, by contrast. This also means you can use IP addresses to share data through SMB.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- SMB is something I have some trouble comparing to any past experience. Being a networking, data sharing tool, it is something that is rather abstract to me and seems to be exclusive to working with tech. The closest comparison I could think to draw to a prior experience would be network sharing being akin to how all employees in a kitchen must share the same base of tools, so backups are required so that one person damaging a knife doesn't put the whole kitchen out of commission, but honestly this doesn't seem like the most accurate metaphor, as even an employee getting sick with a contagious disease and getting the whole kitchen sick doesn't really compare to what the spread of malware would do across a network. Malware would be more like if the knife itself got sick, and that sickness spread to the fridge, ruined all the food, then spread to the dishwasher and everything else in the kitchen.
---
## Things I want to know more about:
- Is SMB THE MOST commonly used tool, or are there others that are preferred for smaller/larger networks, and if so, why is it better to use those systems under those conditions?
- What are some of the most common attacks on ports 139 and 455, how often are attacks on these ports going to be a concern in my cybersecurity career? How can I better prepare myself for dealing with threats that have already occurred/are actively occurring on those ports? 
- What other ports are most commonly used? Are those vulnerable to different attacks that 139 and 455 are not? are they a higher or lower risk profile than 139 and 455?
