# Linux Permissions and Process Management
---
## statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- This unit relates to our learning by providing us an intimate look into the role of a help desk technician, some of the skills necessary to obtain the job, and by showing us the kind of mindset that is helpful to your career in tech. During a head-to-head with one of my friends today, they discussed with me how the help desk position is a good place to build trust within a company from and can help you to gain recognition as you start being called upon to solve problems of increasing complexity. This position is similar to your role now at OE, but focused on tech rather than on fishing, as you not only influence the customer view of the entire organization from the help desk role, but also must use critical thinking, business and interpersonal skills to help solve the problem in its entirety and leave the customer satisfied and happy, with a positive view on the company. Critical thinking skills required are things such as asking the right questions in the right order, in order to start from the root when identifying the problem and explore the routes that lead to the most likely solution. Another one is changing people's perspectives on things, whether that be certain products or new ways of looking at the tools they're struggling with. This particular position is also one in which cybersecurity skills are vital, as problems do not always lie in faulty hardware or code. Malicious actors are out there, and sometimes problems can be caused by malware. Having an understanding of how to help your customers best protect themselves from threats, and understanding how to resolve security issues is vital in any cybersecurity role.
## summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
- I honestly saved most of my thoughts for this part, because reading this article made me realize I am currently a help desk technician. Instead of helping with computers, I help people fish, but I do the exact same things. I have an extremely in-depth knowledge of the tools of the trade, how they are meant to be used, and what problems they can give the end user for what reasons. If a customer calls me and says hey, I've got this reel and for some reason the arm keeps spinning backwards and messing my line up, what should I do? I'll start by having him check the anti-reverse switch, describing it to the customer as a small switch located below the rotor (essentially, did you turn it off and back on again). Typically, the customer was unaware of the existence of this switch, flips it, and the reel suddenly works as desired. If they flip the switch back and forth a few times, I know the instant anti reverse is broken. It is not my position to fix this problem, as it would be akin to a help desk technician asking a customer to do intimate work on their motherboard, it's just not a good idea. Or for another example, demonstrative of the "changing perspectives" critical thinking skill, oftentimes I will get customers who are uncomfortable with their rod and reel for one reason or another, and I will go in depth with them to help them figure out what the problem is. First, I analyze the rod: is it cheaply made, an unusual length, fewer guides than should be present, any signs of damage or weird weight placement within the blank. Then the reel, is it cheap, is it heavy, is it a graphite, plastic or metal spool and if it's metal, how thick is it, is it an odd size for the rod, does the combo feel bad together, etc. if any of this is the case, I will oftentimes try to sell them either a new rod or a new reel, as having one or the other if they're not ready for a full new set will drastically improve their experience. But more often than not, the rod is fine, and I have to make things a little more complicated. I'll tie a small weight to the end of their line and watch them make a few short casts in the store. You would not believe the number of times the problem comes down to "you're holding it upside down" or something absurd like that. Not everybody is experienced, and so the need to break extremely technical lingo into understandable language for someone who may only have a baseline understanding of tech or none at all is critical, just as it is in my current field. Not everyone knows what ZAION alloy is for example, or why they should like it, and so its necessary to be able to just sum it up when selling the reel as "it's made of an extremely lightweight, rigid and salt resistant alloy". You want to avoid complex terminology as much as possible when dealing with inexperienced customers, not to deceive them but to help them understand the concepts in ways that will help them learn in the future. 
---
## Things I want to know more about
- is the help desk the best entry level role, or are there other, better options?
- Does a help desk technician have to eliminate the malware if that is the source of the problem, or does that job fall on another position
