# Network Security with pfSense
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- pfSense is a free, flexible and feature rich distribution of FreeBSD (an operating system designed primarily to power servers, but can serve a variety of purposes). pfSense can turn an old PC that may not be useful as a workstation anymore into a router and firewall. It offers a web based interface, is highly customizable and easy to maintain, and has many features typically only available in more expensive commercial routers. It has an active community support base, through forums and the like, but also offers a paid support package that may be more useful for someone in a business environment, as it will make maintaining several of these systems more streamlined. As a firewall and router, it is an essential component of a secure network architecture, providing greater control over network traffic and security features that can be used to protect against various types of attacks. pfSense offers a wide suite of security features, and will be vital to learn as future cybersecurity professionals as it is a common choice in the tech industry. We may be required to set up network infrastructure using pfSense depending on our role, and it will be good to have the capability to do so in the event it is needed. 
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- pfSense seems to be catering to a few demands: the demand for reliability, versatility, and a good ratio of cost to performance. These are some of the main considerations I have to take in when selling a customer a rod and reel combo. Some people are willing to drop upwards of a thousand dollars on a setup that is highly specialized for one particular technique, and these people will often have different setups for each different style. Your average fisherman, who lacks the storage space and budget to hold upwards of 20 high end rod and reel combos, will not benefit from these kinds of setups. Instead, you want to provide them with something affordable, with good customer support, that will accomplish the widest variety of tasks they wish to perform. For example, a high end, specialized router or firewall may specialize in a few specific areas to an extreme, but not be capable of much customizability. Much like how a deep sea fishing rod with a motorized reel isn't going to be much use for any more than one or two techniques. They generally offer refined features in the area they specialize in, such as adjustable fast acting drag systems or twin gear ratios, but these features will not render this setup capable of performing many tasks other than fishing hundreds of feet deep in the ocean. By contrast, a 9'0 heavy action rod with a generalist saltwater capable round reel (I'm thinking daiwa luna, abu ambassedeur 6500, things of that nature. not huge, not tiny) would be a much better choice for your average consumer: He will be able to drop heavy jigs or live bait down to the bottom off a boat if desired, but will also be capable of jigging smaller metal jigs off a pier, or throwing out still bottom baits for carp or catfish or even sturgeon, or float fishing on a river for king salmon, or throwing magnum swimbaits or spinners for muskie, or trolling or mooching or a million other things. This combo would be the fishing world's equivalent of pfSense. Highly customizable, highly versatile, with well established customer support through the company as well as a large open source community. Round reels are easier to maintain than spinning reels, and a heavy action rod should be perfect for nearly anything: the customer would even be able to fish for small freshwater fish like bass with a combo such as this. pfSense provides the same customizability, versatility and ease of maintenance/use to the average consumer in the tech world as the combo I described above would to the average consumer in the fishing world. It seems that in both fields, versatility is a top priority that separates the good products from the great ones.
---
## Things I want to know more about
- How would pfsense be useful in a home or business environment? why would I want to set up an extra router/firewall using pfsense?
- What greater networking concepts is pfsense a part of? when am I most likely to use it? what roles are most likely to require proficiency with it?
- What are some innovative ways I can use pfsense to make my life as a cybersecurity professional easier?
