# Psychological Safety in Teams
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- In the modern day, collaborative practices in the workplace are more important than ever, as the structure of how we conduct our work has changed over time. This leads to a great emphasis on workplace psychology, and having a proper mindset and techniques for working as part of a unit will be vital in our future as cybersecurity professionals. The article details an example right at the beginning of both a toxic environment and a healthy environment, and some of the things that separate them (proper communication, goal driven thinking, collaboration, acceptance and a lack of judgement leads workers to be more comfortable and thus more productive, as opposed to a harsh, competition driven, judgmental environment where communication is unprofessional or impeded by personal priority), which is a simple showcase for the kinds of thinking and approaches to problem solving that are crucial to take as we step into the tech field, one of the most team driven and collaborative environments out there. Looking for signs of toxic environments ahead of time can also help us to make the right decision for ourselves as employees about which company we truly want to devote our time to.
## What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?
- Equal distribution of listening and speech between all parties, allowing everyone to feel heard, all ideas to be exhausted, and for a full understanding as a unit to be reached.
- Empathy: Read those around you, ask them questions that will benefit both of you, communicate in a way that fosters growth, and operate in a way that considers those around you.
- Trust: being able to trust in those around you, whether its trusting that your teammates are accomplishing their respective goals on time and will communicate with you if they need you to pick up slack, or trusting that your manager is going to actively listen and implement the group's feedback, trust is absolutely crucial for a psychologically safe work environment. Being unable to trust in those around you at work can lead to some serious anxiety, and an overall unpleasant view of what would ordinarily be a rewarding process.
## Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety.
- The place I am at now has a few symptoms of poor management, but being a small business it is a collaborative environment, and having discussed this with the gm I understand why he implements the policies that he does, even if not all are necessarily the approach I would take. However, the dynamic between our crew on the floor is absolutely phenomenal. We all are fairly self governed in our respective departments, and thus collaboration and decision making is more of an interactive process between the departments. For example, despite being a fishing counter employee, I observed an inefficiency in the method we used for selling sunglasses, brought up a possible fix to relevant department staff, and implemented the fix. It is still in place today. As individuals, we all know each other fairly well and enjoy each other's company. I've made some of the best friends I've ever had at this job, and there is a regular crew of folks from work who I will fish, drink, and eat with off the job. I've even organized fishing trips myself for large groups of the staff, there was one day in particular between 8 and 10 staff from different departments, including the assistant manager of the entire store, all met up at about 5 am to go fish the green river for chum salmon. It was a team of folks ranging in age from 18 to late 70s, and between the lot of us the amount of fish we hooked that day couldn't be counted. There wasn't one person who didn't get a bite, and it was a phenomenal bonding experience. Things like this and others help this to be a wonderful work environment where most people genuinely care about what they do and the people they work with, which leads to high productivity and exceptional customer service. Psychological safety begins to falter during slow seasons though, being an offshoot of an already small business, as pressure begins to trickle down from above. Sometimes micromanaging can feel like an issue, and sometimes improper communication regarding projects can lead to frustration for large bodies of the staff. Both faults affect some staff more than others, which can lead to an imbalance of pressure on the most reliable workers who want to take on the most. The well established dynamic between the existing body of staff can sometimes lead to sort of an outcast feeling for the newer staff, up until a certain length of time has passed. This length of time can vary, usually more sociable people who communicate well and reliably manage/accomplish tasks are accepted very quickly, or shared hobbies with other staff members can sometimes bridge this gap. But it is there nonetheless. Despite these faults, it is still easily the most positive environment I have ever worked in, as most of my prior experience was in kitchens, which are known to be a very toxic environment typically.
## What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?
- A positive environment with a high degree of psychological safety has a great degree of benefits: due to genuine care for those around you and the cause you work for, your desire to be productive is high, and your brain will adapt to orient primarily around achieving goals. I brought up earlier the example of how none of us will slack off or shirk responsibilities onto our coworkers because we wouldn't want to put them in that position. This also leads to fewer skipped steps in crucial protocols, as both properly distributed pressure and a desire to complete processes properly leads team members to have the time necessary to complete every aspect of their tasks and structure that time properly without micromanagement. Management in positive environments is generally more collaborative, constructive, and willing to accept criticism. This leads to a positive bottom-up effect that benefits the company, as not only is feedback being taken in from roles in all different tiers, allowing everybody to collaborate on what kind of environment will best fit the whole company and enable smooth operation for all parties, but also the entire company's resource of human minds is being combed for potentially valuable ideas in this way; more minds are always better, and with a wider pool of people who are comfortable to give feedback and actively thinking about the future of the company and directly impacted by its development, a much wider database of ideas will exist for the company to utilize.
## Note:
- One thing that I have learned from my time on earth is that a proper team is meant to work like an organism. Your body is a team. Each organ performs a different task, and has a different workload relative to its strengths, and collaborates and communicates with the rest of the body to keep a steady process going. The liver cannot do the job of the heart and the kidneys cannot do the job of the lungs, just as a software developer would likely flounder if suddenly thrust into the finance team. Should one part of the team begin to falter, lose communication with the rest of the group, or cease to do its job properly/begin sabotaging the rest of the group, the body would likely perish, or at the very least no longer be able to function to its fullest extent. A team in a corporate environment is a body in this way, with rigid structure sometimes better left forgone over a structure that promotes collaboration and centers on the strengths of individuals.
---
## Things I want to know more about:
- What are some things I can do to better collaborate with those around me?
- What are some red flags to look for that are common indicators of a toxic environment? Conversely, what are green flags in interviews that indicate the workplace is likely to have a high degree of psychological safety?
- Are there established guidelines/industry standards for implementing a positive environment?
