# Reading 02
---
## statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module.
- These articles are important to what we are learning in the course for a variety of reasons. In the case of the first two, they help us develop a deeper understanding of two of the tools we are making use of the most often, VSCode and Github. Going through tutorials written by the developer is a necessary step in becoming adept with any given piece of software, be it something as complex as a video game or something as barebones as a shell. The third article helped me to better understand the history of Unix, as well as some basics on how shell scripts can help execute a string of commands more efficiently. The fourth article was particularly interesting, as it contained bits of very intimate history surrounding the development of the modern internet. It brings up the point that even well established and long standing systems need to be checked for bugs and anomolies just as much as newer ones, especially in the case of systems that are critical to the infrastructure of a wide variety of other programs. As in the case of the shellshock bug, human errors in these sensitive locations can lead to unforseen consequences years down the road, leaving bad actors with unseen vectors of entry and rendering deeper layers of security completely irrelevant. Security starts from the bottom up, from the inside out. There is no point in wearing a suit of armor if your immune system is shot. Better safe than sorry is always the case here, and thorough audits of software are absolutely necessary.

 - These articles also helped us to gain a deeper understanding of some of the terminology being used frequently in class. For example, Bash is Bourne Again Shell; an enhanced version of the Bourne shell that is distributed with most versions of linux by default, which can read a wider variety of commands and features command line editing. Bash draws features from both Korn shell (a shell based on Bourne shell already meant to draw features from C Shell and further enhance its capabilities) and C shell. It also clarified that both the GUI and CLI are types of operating system Shells, the GUI is a graphical representation of the CLI to provide ease of use to beginners.
 - Regarding Github; This article clarified some details regarding the use of branches. Branches are essentially a snapshot of your main code, which can be modified and tested without affecting the main body of work. It also provided a basic tutotiral for pull requests. Pull requests can be used to suggest changes to another person's code, by showing differences between the two scripts in various colors. Pull requests can also be easiy merged into the main body of code automatically.
   
---
## things I want to know more about
- what are some of the most common commands people will use shell scripts to run?
- I need to understand how to connect to github through ssh, I'm not sure if i'm just missing crucial steps, but I will take a day to read thorough tutorials and make sure I'm understanding the concept.