# Reading 10
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- Veeam is an alternate, third party backup software for backing up data of vms. It offers greater flexibility and utility than the typical options such as snapshotting, cloning or exporting a vm, as options like veeamzip can create lightweight backup files quickly without needing to power down the vm. It can also allow more efficient and complete restoration of your files in the event that you do need to utilize your backup. Veeam agent will be a useful tool as we continue to use virtual machines in our work and studies. I know personally, I hate having to shut down the vm, which sometimes prompts the PC to update and can take quite some time, then either take a snapshot which can be kind of finnicky, clone the vm which not only takes a decent amount of time, but saps GBS of space in my hard drive, or exporting the vm, which takes even more time and space and then must be reinstalled through the time consuming importation process if you intend to rely on that export for a backup. Veeam Agent will make the way I back up my virtual machines faster, more effective, and more customizable to the specific needs of that particular situation, which will serve to encourage me to back up my virtual machines more frequently as the ease of use it offers will provide a stark contrast from the aforementioned backup methods.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- When out fishing, backups are just as important as in tech. The last thing you want is for a clumsy cast to render an otherwise perfect setup unusable, in a twisting mass of tangled line, right as the salmon bite starts. So in the river, I always bring a backup rod with me, tied on with either the exact same tackle as my main setup, or the next, most likely to be successful alternative. Veeam Agent does not have a direct comparison I can think of in this field, however I will attempt to represent the effects a tool meant to do the same thing (streamline the backup process) would look. Picture instead of having to bring a whole second rod with me, or two or three, which requires a decent amount of storage space, is harder to carry, and requires you to spend money on multiple rods AND reels; All I would have to do is push a few buttons, the exact starting state of my rod down to the exact length of the leader is saved in a package so small, all I have to do is stick it in my pocket. In the event of that nasty birdsnest, I could cast the entire rod aside, pulling out the exact compressed copy to resume fishing not only quickly and efficiently, but without disturbance to my technique.
I understand this is not a direct comparison, and could be applied to other sorts of file copying/compression as backups, but this is the closest comparison I could think to draw to this software.
---
## Things I want to know more about
- In what situations would it be better to use a third party backup solution as opposed to the native options provided by the VM software?
- How is veeam ware better than exporting the vm and compressing into a zip manually, apart from being more efficient?
- what are the advantages of being able to actively back up live vms?