# Reading 06
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- These articles make us familiar with a few of the tools that will be important for managing security in Windows environments. This is relevant to our learning as it is likely that we will need to use these tools as cybersecurity professionals, as Windows is the most commonly used operating system in companies. The event viewer is useful for observing all the actions that have taken place on the computer, and thus the initial actions that caused a problem, or an offending process that can be traced back to a certain file can be viewed easily. On the other hand, Windows Defender security center can be used to respond quickly to threats that the OS has detected automatically, as well as checking on the health of the device (memory, battery life, storage use, etc) and managing security features, like firewalls for different network types. Overall, the security center has a much friendlier user interface, while the event viewer gives you a much more detailed view of what processes have been logged. Windows event viewer can also be used for cybersecurity auditing, as parameters can be customized to log things like invalid login attempts, changes made to files, etc.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- Windows event viewer would have been useful in our last lab assignment to determine what was causing lisa's problem. It would have been a roundabout way to do so, yes, but I could have seen the entire process that had taken place to kill windows explorer (I did not figure out that the excell file was related to the problem), and been able to respond appropriately and swiftly. The security center could be compared to the wdfw app, which I've used to monitor updates to regulations, projections and results for certain water bodies, weather conditions, and many other things that could be compared to the functions of the security center. 
---
## Things I want to know more about
- When is it best to use the security center?
- What are some things you may need to do if the security center is not an option?
- What are some situations where the windows security center would not be useful?
- What alternative tools are there for these situations?
- Are there third party tools for security management that we will be more likely to use in our cybersecurity careers? If so, what are they? What makes them different?