# Reading 14
---
## statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module. 
- Malware is one of the most prominent issues in cybersecurity: malware can do anything from launching web browsers directing you to ads or scams, or more malicious activities like making changes on your pc, locking off your data, or broadcasting it to an outside source among many other things. Understanding how to remove malware is vital in our futures as cybersecurity professionals, so that we can respond appropriately when we come across it as well as identify signs of malware vs a hardware or software malfunction. The article discusses both proprietary and third party options for malware removal on windows systems, detailing how we can use safe mode to examine our filesystem for a potential culprit without allowing it to continue executing malicious scripts. It also discusses how to use third party antivirus software to scan for and eliminate malware (the article uses malwarebytes, though I use a combination of nord and windows defender, and have primarily used avast in the past), and more importantly what you should do to recover your system after dealing with any existing malware, primarily detailing how to inspect for a change in the homepage settings of your web browser, but it could also be important to check for registry/system changes, or even do a system restore. It also discussed the worst case scenario, windows being completely corrupted by malware, in which case you should copy your files to a flash drive and reinstall windows completely.
## summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
- Malware is a bit like an invasive species: it does exactly what it is designed to do, entering an ecosystem and causing havoc among the native wildlife, sucking up resources and evading predation, or even taking out vital species entirely in the case of some species (looking at you pikeminnow, the Worms of the fish world). It may or may not duplicate itself heavily into existing networks, like the spread of smallmouth bass along the Colorado river, or zebra mussels into every freshwater body they can find their way into. Overall, it is vital to have the same passion for eliminating and preventing the spread of malware in our industry environments that we have for eliminating invasive species in our local ecosystems.
---
## Things I want to know more about:
- with such powerful security settings in place by default on most modern systems, what are the most common malware threats in the industry today? I feel I hear more about zero day exploits than anything else.
- Is Windows defender/firewall really enough, or is there more we can do as individual users to completely lock down our pcs against malicious actors?
- How do cybersecurity professionals respond in the event of a large scale malware infection/cybersecurity attack? What do some of the defensive actions we take look like?