# Reading 08
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module
- Some things can only be accomplished by modifying the registry, which will allow a greater degree of customizability. It is best to only modify when necessary, as sensitive system files are stored in the windows registry, and deleting or modifying them could cause problems. It is always best to backup your system before editing the registry. Windows registry is an extremely large database of sensitive system files that store configurations used by other programs and parts of the OS. Windows registry can be useful for automation, as settings can be saved in batches as .reg files and transferred to other devices/an entire network to automatically push out necessary changes. 
The Windows Event viewer is similarly useful for systems admins, but rather than being used to modify system settings, the event viewer gives a detailed description of all actions performed by the pc. This can be highly useful for pinpointing the causes of security issues (repeated login failure due to a bad actor attempting to gain access to the system, or suspicious/untrusted files that have been run on the system), identifying more human issues (such as repeated login failure due to a password change). When troubleshooting more complex issues on a PC, the event viewer can be a good place to look (such as in lab 05, when lisa's explorer killing file could have been viewed running in the event viewer, followed directly by the event log of windows explorer being killed).
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience
- It is difficult to draw a comparison to the windows registry, as systems files are not typically something directly paralleled by any physical tool or structured system we use in kitchens or the fishing industry, though I suppose one could draw a comparison to the actual physical layout of a kitchen, the location of outlets, ovens, and even hangers for different kinds of tools all make a difference in the ease of access for employees. Having a cleverly structured kitchen will have every task flow smoothly from one area to the next, keeping necessary tools in each area easily accessible. In a similar way, the windows registry can be used to configure the layout of the "kitchen" that is your computer, putting the tools you use most often in easy reach and ensuring important systems have the right settings. The event viewer on the other hand, is more akin to the system we use at my current job for selling firearms. Every piece of the transaction is recorded to a T, down to the method of payment and information about the user(customer). This way in the event of denied access (similar to a lack of admin privileges) or a crime committed down the road, this information can be referred back to by relevant parties to proceed with the proper security protocol.
---
## Things I want to know more about
- When is your first thought going to be "I need to check the event viewer"? What kinds of problems and situations facilitate that being the first place one should check?
- What, if any, system changes can now be done more efficiently through other applications than through the Windows Registry? What situations would facilitate the use of the Windows Registry to make these changes?
- What roles in the cybersecurity field would most frequently solicit the use of these tools?