# Reading 04
---
## statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module.
- This article/video brings some troubleshooting concepts from the Comptia A+. When helping a client solve a problem, following troubleshooting steps in the proper order is necessary in order to properly diagnose and solve the problem. Here they outline these steps for us and provide a flowchart, demonstrating that the proper steps are, in order, gather information (asking the users proper questions about the issue, identifying symptoms of the problem, accounting for recent changes, and determining the priority at which different symptoms should be addressed)> establish a theory (identify the most obvious causes, considering remote possibilities as well, and listing all possible causes can help with this)> test the theory and evaluate results (ensuring your diagnosis is correct, if not you will need to start again from step 3)> establish a plan of action (correct the issue while making the minimum impact possible on the client's existing systems/files, and create several backup plans that address other possible causes/failure points along the way)> implement the plan (depending on your level of skills, third party help may be necessary)> verify the problem is solved to completion (will require validation from client)> and lastly document your findings so you can repeat the results in the event that this is a recurring problem. This flow chart establishes the proper order of actions when addressing an issue with a client and will be immensely helpful when troubleshooting your own tech issues as well. This is important as knowing the proper order of steps when solving a problem will lead to problems being solved more efficiently and with the most minimally invasive solution possible. 
## summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
- This is the same order of operations I use at my current job. For example, customer comes in with a broken reel. I will start by asking them what they were doing in the exact moment they first noticed the problem, then ask for their point of view on what they believe the cause to be from that. from there, I will generally have to handle the reel myself, performing the exact actions they are having trouble with (for example, levelwind not rotating with the spool. I would rotate the handle several times while holding the reel at various angles, put it into freespool, spin the spool, replicating the motions of what would be done while fishing. In this case, if upon removing the pawl from the levelwind and reinstalling it repeats the same issue, I know that the pawl is stripped and will need to be replaced, as it can no longer mesh with the teeth on the gears and will no longer be able to arrange line onto the spool.) After attempting to diagnose the problem and gaining the customers perspective, I would establish a plan of action (in the case above, they would need to send it to the manufacturer, but there have been times when the solution is as simple as stripping all the line off, tying a firmer knot to the spool and taping it down, and refilling the reel with line.) and by the end of the process the customer would either know what next step they need to take in getting their product repaired, or have a fully functional product once again. I look forward to practicing this within the framework of tech. 
---
## things I want to know more about
- how does this order of operations change as issues increase in complexity?
- are there any exceptions to these rules/what are some instances in which steps can/need to be skipped or ignored altogether?
- When a third party needs to be involved, do they start over from the beginning of the order of operations or is there another proper protocol for picking up in the middle of someone else's work?