# Reading 11
---
## Statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module:
- DBAN is a tool for securely erasing data from a hard drive. It is preferred in the industry over alternatives such as custom scripts or commands, as it is proven to work and most cybersecurity auditors already understand how well it works and why. You may want to securely delete the contents of a hard drive for several reasons, such as preventing identity theft, data theft, or to remove viruses or malware from the hard drive in question. DBAN must be booted directly into in order to be used, and provides a convenient GUI for removing data from your hard drive. However, while DBAN is useful for secure data removal to some extents, it has its limitations. For example, DBAN can neither detect nor erase SSDs, and also does not provide a certificate of erasure, which may render it invalid for some cybersecurity auditing purposes. 
The other article discusses how to detect failures within your SSD, which can be slightly more difficult to detect at times than HDD problems. It is important to be able to know if your SSD is experiencing issues, as a faulty SSD cannot be relied on to store data; it could corrupt your files, perform unexpected actions, or otherwise critically malfunction. Malfunctions in the data storage device can be as harmful as a ransomware attack, as a loss of data in this way can cause a similarly long period of restoration. Due to the lack of moving parts in SSDs, malfunctions can be harder to detect, as audible signals such as irregular whirring noises, etc cannot be relied on as a method of detecting failures. One potential sign of a failing SSD can be things like bad blocks, which refers to corrupted blocks of data storage on the drive. These can be detected by observing for failure messages when moving, copying, saving and reading files. You may also actively be prompted to repair the drive by warning messages. Another sign can be if your computer is crashing repeatedly, but then works properly after several reboots. This can indicate the SSD is struggling to work properly. A failing SSD should always have all salvageable data backed up, and then be securely erased before being replaced with a new SSD. Secure erasure is vital to prevent the old SSD from having its data recovered by bad actors, which can lead to a whole host of consequences.
## Summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience:
- In a kitchen, if one part of a batch of prepped ingredients had a spot of mold, or other signs of rot/spoilage, we would not attempt to salvage the batch. Instead, we would "nuke" the whole batch of ingredients, throwing it out and prepping it over from scratch with product we confirmed ourselves to be objectively fresh. In a similar way to how preventing data/identity theft is crucial in SSDs that are no longer in use, it was also crucial to prevent others (not necessarily bad actors in this case, but dumpster divers nonetheless) from becoming sick, so we would typically pour even further spoiled product over what needed to be disposed of (product that was still edible would be donated to relevant facilities, this was only done to objectively spoiled, poisonous food and is common practice in the food service industry). This is somewhat similar to the need to remove all usable data from a drive before it can be properly disposed of.
---
## Things I want to know more about
- what are the alternatives to DBAN? my outside reading gave me some conflicting results, with some saying it was preferred in the industry and others saying it could not deliver necessary certificates of data removal needed by cybersecurity

 